# String Data Type

You probably already know that when you create a table in a database, you must define the column names and the data type of the content that will reside in those columns. You can use a string datatype to define the columns datatype, particularly in instances when it accepts both numeric and text characters. 

In this video, you'll explore the string datatype, and by the end of the video, you'll be able to explain the string datatype in a database and differentiate between CHARR and VARCHAR datatypes. When you create a table in a database, it is important for data integrity to ensure that only valid values are inserted in your table. For example, you should use string datatype when you intend to store data that contains a mix of character types. If you define a column as a string, then any type of text can be inserted. This includes alphabet characters, numeric characters, and special characters. 

Let's explore an example to find out more about how string datatypes work. Let's take the example of a student table from a college database. This table stores student login information for the colleges online portal. It stores this information under the following four columns; Student name, username, password and email address. The student name column contains only alphabet characters. The username column contains alphanumeric characters, and the password and email column contains a mix of character types. 

String datatype is a generic term used for different string datatypes in the database. The most used string datatypes are `CHAR`, which stands for character. This datatype is used to hold characters of a fixed length. `VARCHAR` stands for variable character. This holds characters of the variable length. Let's explore these string data types further. `CHAR` means that the given length of the characters is predetermined. It can't be changed after declaration. Column attributes are defined as `CHAR` followed by a character length in parentheses. For example, `CHAR (50)` means that a column only permits 50 characters of space in each field. `CHAR` is the best option if you've predefined size of character that you want to maintain. In the student table, you can set a maximum length of 50 characters for the username column in SQL with `CHAR (50)`. For example, the table contains the records for a student with a username `Mark123`, which is a total of seven characters. However, because the column is defined as `CHAR (50)`, this username occupies the length of 50 characters within the space. 

The `VARCHAR` datatype works in a similar way to `CHAR`. Whoever it is a variable length. This means that the length can be changed. It's not fixed. `VARCHAR` are often used when you're not sure how many characters might be inserted in the column field. You can type `VARCHAR(50)` in SQL to allow for any input up to maximum of 50 characters. In the student table example, the student name column would most likely contain names of varying length. You could define the student name column as `VARCHAR(50)` in SQL This means that the name
of each student only occupies as much space as there are characters in their name. For example, "Mark Simpson" occupies far less than 50 characters. But this field could hold a name up to the value of 50 characters if required. 

Finally, let's briefly explore some more commonly used examples of string datatypes. `TINYTEXT` is used to define columns that require less than 255 characters, like short paragraphs. `TEXT` is used to define columns of less than 65,000 characters, like an article. `MEDIUMTEXT` defined columns of 16.7 million characters. For example, the text of a book. The `LONGTEXT` datatype stores up to four gigabytes of text data. You should now be able to explain the string datatype as used in a database. You should also be capable of differentiating between string datatypes including `CHAR` and `VARCHAR`.